# Bellabeat Case Study

Step 1: Ask

The questions being asked in this analysis:
* What are some trends in smart device usage?
* How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers?
* How could these trends influence Bellabeat marketing strategy?

The business task:
* See how trends in smart devices apply to Bellabeat customers and how these trends could influence Bellabeat's marketing strategy.
* These insights will be applied to the Leaf tracker, a product which can be worn as a bracelet, necklace, or clip to track activity, sleep, and stress.

The key stakeholders:
(sourced from Bellabeat Case Study rubric via the Google Data Analytics Certificate)
* "Urška Sršen- Bellabeat’s cofounder and Chief Creative Officer
* Sando Mur: Mathematician and Bellabeat’s cofounder; key member of the Bellabeat executive team
* Bellabeat marketing analytics team: A team of data analysts responsible for collecting, analyzing, and
reporting data that helps guide Bellabeat’s marketing strategy. You joined this team six months ago and have been busy learning about Bellabeat’’s mission and business goals — as well as how you, as a junior data analyst, can help Bellabeat achieve them."


Step 2: Prepare

(Datasets recommended via Bellabeat Case Study)
Kaggle Page for Datasets: https://www.kaggle.com/arashnic/fitbit
Datasets Used: 'dailyActivity_merged.csv', 'sleepDay_merged.csv', 'hourlyIntensities_merged.csv'

Data Liscense Agreement: "The person who associated a work with this deed has dedicated the work to the public domain by waiving all of his or her rights to the work worldwide under copyright law, including all related and neighboring rights, to the extent allowed by law. You can copy, modify, distribute and perform the work, even for commercial purposes, all without asking permission.”

Bias:
* Reliable-  ‘Bad data can’t be trusted because it’s inaccurate, incomplete, or biased.’ This could mean that there is sample selection bias, which means the sample is not representative of the population as a whole. We know that the datasets contain data on thirty eligible Fitbit users who consented to the submission of personal tracker data, according to Kaggle. Unfortunately just the user ID is available to identify users and not gender, which would be useful as Bellabeat is a female specific fitness company, but the data will still be useful to identify overall trends.
* Original- The datasets were generated by respondents to a survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk and is public data from Fitbit Fitness Tracker Data. So yes it's original data.
* Comprehensive- These datasets don’t appear to be missing important information and most info is filled in in full. So yes it’s comprehensive.
* Current- The Kaggle data source indicates in its usability description that ‘update frequency is specified’, howeger I don’t see it at the top of the dataset. It mentions that it was last updated a year ago, which isn’t very recent. But when considering the contents of the dataset, Fitbit usage from 4/12/2016 - 5/12/2016, it makes sense that the datasets themselves wouldn’t be updated with new information. So it being current depends on the user’s definition of current, as it is now 5 years old. Also depends on how drastically fitness usage has changed in the past five years. I’m going to say this is current, but won’t be for much longer.
* Cited-  It’s cited as Fitbit data as well as the survey, Amazon Mechanical Turk, so yes it’s cited. 

Step 3: Process

I’m choosing R for the majority of this project as I can clean, analyze, and visualize all in one program which helps keep everything organized. I also believe that it’s easiest to convert data types and clean string variables in R for large data sets.

The Changelog can be found in the appendix at the end of the presentation.

Step 4: Analyze 

I imported the three datasets into R and named them easy to remember names, activity, sleep, and weight. I cleaned all the datasets and renamed columns as needed to keep them as uniform as possible.

Some metrics and relationships found:
(R code and presentation can be found here on GitHub
* Total steps
* Total distance
* Relationship between intensity level and distance traveled
* Relationship between time asleep and time in bed
* Intensity levels throughout the day

Steps 5 and 6: Share and Act
Top 3 Recommendations based on this analysis:
* Target the working class by marketing the Leaf to promote more physical activity throughout the day.
* Advertise features that promote better sleep such as reminders to complete certain amount of activity before bedtime and to turn off electronics before getting into bed.
* Increase advertising efforts in gyms and fitness centers during evenings.
